gse	pubmed_id	title	summary	submission_date	type	overall_design
GSE10588	19249095	Placental gene expression in severe preeclampsia.	The series is composed of thirty hybridizations for analysis of differentially expressed genes in normal placenta tissues from patients with normal labor and placenta tissues from patients with severe preeclampsia. Patients tissues samples were obtained from (Vasilis. Total RNA extraction was performed by using the MagNa Pure Compact RNA Isolation Kit (Roche Applied Science).; | Keywords: Gene expression study, Disease state	2008-02-20	Expression profiling by array	Twenty-six out of 50 normal placentas were randomly selected to match with 17 preeclamptic placentas, accounting for parity. Microarrays were performed applying a direct comparison design.
GSE14722	18818296	Severe Preeclampsia-Related Changes in Gene Expression at the Maternal-Fetal Interface Include Siglec-6 and Pappalysin-2	Preeclampsia (PE), which affects 4-8% of human pregnancies, causes significant maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Within the basal plate, placental cytotrophoblasts (CTBs) of fetal origin invade the uterus and extensively remodel the maternal vasculature. In PE, CTB invasion is often shallow, and vascular remodeling is rudimentary. To better understand possible causes, we conducted a global analysis of gene expression at the maternal-fetal interface in placental samples from women with PE (n = 12; 24-36 wk) vs. samples from women who delivered due to preterm labor with no evidence of infection (n = 11; 24-36 wk), a condition that our previous work showed is associated with normal CTB invasion. Using the HG-U133A&B Affymetrix GeneChip platform, and statistical significance set at log odds-ratio of B >0, 55 genes were differentially expressed in PE. They encoded proteins previously associated with PE [e.g. Flt-1 (vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-1), leptin, CRH, and inhibin] and novel molecules [e.g. sialic acid binding Ig-like lectin 6 (Siglec-6), a potential leptin receptor, and pappalysin-2 (PAPP-A2), a protease that cleaves IGF-binding proteins]. We used quantitative PCR to validate the expression patterns of a subset of the genes. At the protein level, we confirmed PE-related changes in the expression of Siglec-6 and PAPP-A2, which localized to invasive CTBs and syncytiotrophoblasts. Notably, Siglec-6 placental expression is uniquely human, as is spontaneous PE. The functional significance of these novel observations may provide new insights into the pathogenesis of PE, and assaying the circulating levels of these proteins could have clinical utility for predicting and/or diagnosing PE.; | ; | Keywords: disease state analysis	2009-02-05	Expression profiling by array	Basal plate biopsies of preterm labor (24-36 weeks; n=11) and preterm severe preeclampsia (24-36 weeeks; n=12) were isolated and the global gene expression profiles determined using Affymetrix Human GeneChips.  Comparisons between the preeclampsia samples and the preterm labor controls revealed genes differentially expressed in preeclampsia.
GSE24129	NA	Gene expression profiling for placentas from pre-eclamptic, unexplained FGR and normal pregnancies.	It has been well documented that pre-eclampsia and unexplained fetal growth restriction (FGR) has a common etiological background, but little is known about the linkage al the molecular level.; | we have performed global gene expression profiling by oligonucleotide microarrays for placentas from pre-eclamptic, unexplained FGR and normal pregnancies to further elucidate the mechanisms underlying the development of these two disorders.	2010-09-14	Expression profiling by array	The total number of samples used was 8 from pre-eclampsia, 8 from normotensive pregnancies with FGR and 8 from those without FGR.
GSE25906	21183218	Transcriptional Profiling of Human Placentas from Pregnancies Complicated by Preeclampsia Reveals Disregulation of Sialic Acid Acetylesterase and Immune Signaling Pathways	The placenta plays an important role as a regulator of fetal nutrition and growth throughout development and placental factors contribute to gestational abnormalities such as preeclampsia. This study describes the genome-wide gene expression profiles of a large (n=60) set of human placentas in order to uncover gene expression patterns associated with preeclampsia.  In addition to confirming changes in expression of soluble factors associated with preeclampsia such as sFLT1 (soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1), sENG (soluble endoglin), and INHA (inhibin alpha), we also find changes in immune-associated signaling pathways, offering a potential upstream explanation for the shallow trophoblast invasion and inadequate uterine remodeling typically observed in pathogenesis of preeclampsia.  Notably, we also find evidence of preeclampsia-associated placental upregulation of sialic acid acetylesterase (SIAE), a gene functionally associated with autoimmune diseases.	2010-12-07	Expression profiling by array	23 preeclamptic, and 37 control placentas included in this study were collected during the years of 2004-2008 and hybridized in two batches to microarrays.  Samples were randomized across arrays to control for array and batch variability.
GSE30186	22702245	Genome-wide analysis of gene expression in placentas derived from patients with preeclampsia	The purpose of this study was to perform a comprehensive analysis of gene expression profile in placentas from preeclamptic pregnancies vs normal placentas.	2011-06-23	Expression profiling by array	Total RNA obtained from placental tissues of patients with normal pregnancies and patients with preeclampsia.
GSE35574	NA	Differentially expressed microRNAs revealed by molecular signatures of Preeclampsia and IUGR in human placenta	The placenta plays an important role as a regulator of fetal nutrition and growth throughout development and placental factors contribute to gestational abnormalities such as preeclampsia. This study describes the genome-wide gene expression profiles of a large (n=94) set of human placentas in order to uncover gene expression patterns (or molecular signatures) associated with preeclampsia and IUGR. Besides modulated modularity clustering and pathway analysis, a set of candidate miRNAs were predicted by Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) based on differentially expressed genes. A case-control study was conducted to examine the expression patterns of these candidate miRNAs in human placentas	2012-02-06	Expression profiling by array	35 IUGR (including 8 technical repeats for batch effect), 19 preeclamptic and 40 control placentas included in this study were collected during the years of 2004-2008 and hybridized in two batches to microarrays.  Samples were randomized across arrays to control for array and batch variability.
GSE43942	NA	Gene expression profiling for placentas from pre-eclamptic and normal pregnancies	Investigation of whole genome gene expression level changes between placentas from pregnancies with PE and placentas from normal pregnancies to search for the candiadate genes for further DNA methylation analysis; | The differentially expressed genes LEP and SH3PXD2A were further analyzed by DNA methylation.	2013-01-31	Expression profiling by array	5 placentas from pregnancies with PE and 7 from normal subjects were included in the gene expression microarray analysis.
GSE44711	NA	Gene expression in Early-Onset Preeclampsia Placentas and Controls	We investigated the DNA methylation and gene expression of 20 chorionic villi samples from early onset preeclampsia placentas to 20 gestational age matched controls. From this we were able to see a widespread disregulation in DNA methylation across a subset of genes in the genome. This may help to elucidate the underlying biological problems that lead to early onset preeclampsia. We noted that there were DNA methylation changes in many genes of importance as well as in different genomic elements such as enhancers.	2013-02-27	Expression profiling by array	RNA from 8 Early Onset Preeclampsia placentas and 8 gestational age matched controls
GSE4707	16860862	Microarray Analysis of Differentially Expressed Genes in Placental Tissue of Severe Preeclampsia	Pre-eclampsia is one of the most serious pregnancy-associated disorders, and is defined by hypertension (systolic blood pressure higher than 140mmHg or diastolic blood pressure higher than 90mmHg) with proteinuria (more than 0.3g/day). It is not a simple complication of pregnancy, but is rather a syndrome of multiple organ failure involving the liver, kidney, and lung, as well as coagulatory and neural systems. There is now an emerging consensus that pre-eclampsia is a complex polygenetic trait in which maternal and fetal genes, as well as environmental factors, are involved, although the precise mechanism of the disorder has remained elusive. In this study, we have performed gene expression profiling to further elucidate the mechanisms underlying the development of the pre-eclamptic condition. We thus compared the expression profiles in placentas from women who underwent a normal pregnancy and from women suffering from severe pre-eclampsia. In addition, we compared the expression data between the early and late onset forms of pre-eclampsia and obtained a number of potential new prognostic biomarkers for this disease.; | Keywords: disease state analysis	2006-04-24	Expression profiling by array	Placental biopsies were obtained during Caesarean section from both normotensive patients and from those with pre-eclampsia (n = 14) (early onset type; earlier than 31 weeks gestation, n = 6 and late onset type; 31 weeks gestation or later, n = 8). Pre-eclampsia was defined as a blood pressure of higher than 160/110 mmHg, with proteinuria of more than 2g in a 24 hour collection. The expression profiles of approximately 47,669 genes were analyzed using a Whole Human Genome Oligo Microarray Kit (Agilent Technologies). A total of 10 placentas from women with pre-eclampsia and four from normal subjects were used in the hybridizations. Reverse transcription labeling and hybridization was performed using the protocol recommended by the manufacturer. The microarray experiments were then carried out using competitive hybridization experiments with Cy3 and Cy5-labeled targets; one with test placental RNAs from patients or normal control subjects, and another using pooled normal placental RNA as a template control for normalization. The glass slides were scanned using an Agilent G2565BA microarray scanner. Scanned images were then analyzed using Feature Extraction software. The average signal intensities were corrected for median background intensity and transferred with GenBank descriptors to a Microsoft Excel data spreadsheet (Microsoft, Redmond, WA). Data analysis was performed using Genespring software version 6.1 (Silicon Genetics, Redwood City, CA). After intensity dependent normalization (Lowess), the expression levels relative to the control were calculated as a ratio, and the expression profiles were then compared between each pre-eclamptic or normal sample.
GSE47187	NA	Analysis of differentially expressed genes in placental tissues of Pre-eclampsia Using microarray combined with Connectivity Map database	Preeclampsia (PE), which affects 2-7% of human pregnancies, causes significant maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. To better understand the pathophysiology of PE, gene expression profiling of placental tissue from 5 controls and 5 PEs were assessed using microarray. A total of 224 transcripts were identified as being significantly differentially expressed (fold change > 2 and q value < 0.05 in the SAM software), GO enrichment analysis indicated that genes involved hypoxia, oxidative and reductive processes were significantly changed. Ten differentially expressed genes (DEGs) involved in these biological process were further verified by quantitative real-time PCR. Finally, the potential therapeutic agents for PE were explored via Connectivity Map database . In conclusion, the data obtained in this study might provide clues to better understand the pathophysiology of PE and found potential therapeutic agents for PE patients.	2013-05-22	Expression profiling by array	gene expression profiling of placental tissue from 5 controls and 5 PEs were assessed using microarray.
GSE60438	26010865	Transcriptome profiling of deciduas from pre-eclamptic and normotensive pregnancies	Genome-wide analysis of decidual transcriptome in pre-eclampsia compared with normotensive controls to find differentially expressed genes/pathways.; | Preeclampsia (PE) is a common and serious pregnancy hypertensive disorder with a strong genetic component. The study aims were to use genome-wide analysis of decidual transcriptome in pre-eclampsia compared with normotensive controls to identify differentially expressed biological pathways, and to determine common pathways between the transcriptome and previously identified maternal susceptibility genes.	2014-08-15	Expression profiling by array	Total RNA from decidua basalis obtained from pre-eclamptic and normotensive control patients at Caesarean section
GSE6573	17261642	Dysregulation of the circulating and tissue-based renin-angiotensin system in preeclampsia	Preeclampsia complicates more than 3% of all pregnancies in the United States and Europe. High-risk populations include women with diabetes, dyslipidemia, thrombotic disorders, hyperhomocysteinemia, hypertension, renal diseases, previous preeclampsia, twin pregnancies, and low socioeconomic status. In the latter case, the incidence may increase to 20% to 25%. Preeclampsia is a major cause of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality. Preeclampsia is defined by systolic blood pressure of more than 140 mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure of more than 90 mm Hg after 20 weeks gestation in a previously normotensive patient, and new-onset proteinuria. Abnormal placentation associated with shallow trophoblast invasion (fetal cells from outer cell layer of the blastocyst) into endometrium (decidua) and improper spiral artery remodeling in the decidua are initial pathological steps.; | In this study we analyzed the renin-angiotensin system in adipose tissue, decidua and placenta from women with uneventful pregnancy and women with preeclampsia. We also analyzed the tissue by Affymetrix chips in a comparison study (control vs. preeclampsia); | Keywords: disease comparison, disease state	2006-12-20	Expression profiling by array	6 affymetrix human expression chips (GPL570) were analyzed.; | They represent 3 tissues (pooled from 10 individuals each) from patients with preeclampsia and from patients with uneventful pregnancy (collected by cesaraen section). Tissues from patients with uneventful pregnancy are the controls in comparison to tissues of patients with preeclampsia.
GSE73374	NA	Epigenetics and Preeclampsia: Defining Functional Epimutations in the Preeclamptic Placenta Related to the TGF-β Pathway [gene expression]	Placental Tissue Samples from 36 women (17 normotensive women, denoted with a P, and 19 preeclamptic women, denoted with a Q) were analyzed for differenital methylation; | Preeclamptic womene were compared direclty to normotensive women controlling for gestational age, race, maternal age, and baby sex	2015-09-23	Expression profiling by array	36 samples were analyzed: 17 normotensive, 19 preeclamptic
GSE74341	NA	Gene expression profiling reveal different molecular pattern in G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway between early- and late-onset preeclampsia	Background: Early-onset preeclampsia (EOPE) and late-onset preeclampsia (LOPE) has been regarded as two different phenotypes with heterogeneous manifestation. The underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Aim to gain insight into the pathogenesis of the two traits, we analyzed the placental gene expression profiles in preeclampsia placentas.; | ; | Methods: Whole genome-wide microarray was used to describe the gene expression profiles in the placenta tissues from patients with early-(n=7; <34 weeks), late-onset(n=8; >36 weeks) PE and their controls who delivered preterm (n=5;<34 weeks) or at term(n=5; >36 weeks) Genes were selected as differentially expressed upon a fold-change≥2 and q-value<0.05. qRT-PCR was undertaken to verify the results. Western blot was further performed to verify secreted genes at the protein level.; | ; | Results: A total of 627 genes were differentially expressed in early-compared with late-onset PE. Of these, 177 genes were up-regulated and 450 genes down-regulated in early-onset PE. Go analysis showed significant alteration in several biological processes, in addition to the processes which have been found before, such as immune and inflammatory response, cell adhension, female pregnancy and blood vessel development. We also found alteration in G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway, G protein-coupled receptor 124 (GPR124) (P=0.0064) and MAS-related GPR, member F (MRGPRF)(P=0.0155 ) were both down-regulated obviously in early-onset PE.; | ; | Conclusion: The different gene expression profiles suggested early- and late-onset PE are separate disease entities. Moreover, G-protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway may contribute to the mechanism underlying early- and late-onset preeclampsia.	2015-10-26	Expression profiling by array	Whole genome-wide microarray was used to describe the gene expression profiles in the placenta tissues from patients with early-(n=7; <34 weeks), late-onset (n=8; >36 weeks) PE and their controls who delivered preterm(n=5;<34 weeks) or at term(n=5; >36 weeks). Pooled controls who delivered at term were labled with cy5.
